Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which is demonstrating the prototype
design pattern.
We're going to create a basic car after class couple of concrete cars that implement Colonial.
And then we're going to use a cash to retrieve colonial cars.
Let's bring up until today and I'm going to call this project.
I think I'll call a prototype solution since it's applying to a challenge and then you can ignore most
of this it's pretty straightforward.
We're going to see a prototype could spell prototype solution.
First thing we're gonna do is we're going to create our abstract class.
And so we're gonna say public abstract or better yet abstract class I like not using the modifiers just
so not to worry about files file naming and so forth.
So it's a basic car.
And this is going to implement the colonial interface.
We're gonna have a couple attributes for the string the model name
and the price and we'll just make that an integer and just for simplicity and then a couple of getters
and setters which we can just click on and say generate and we'll generate a getter and setter
make it a bit easier.
Generated them a little lower than I wanted
and then we'll do the same for price
although the change a bit actually for price I think I'll just add a setter and I want to do some kind
of random price just to make things interesting so I'll say public static int.
So we can actually set the price without having an instance.
We can do it after the fact with the colonial set price and what we're gonna do is here is going to
say in price equals zero and then we're just gonna do some random price.
So we're gonna use the Random class new random we're gonna set the seed
our next dance and just put something in narrow like a hundred grand.
And then the price is gonna be equal to that random number and we're gonna return the price just to
make things interesting.
We also need to implement the clone method and so we're gonna say public basic car clone because it
returns a basic car.
We have to support our exception which is our clone not spoiled exception.
And then we're just gonna return a basic car casted and call super doc.
All right.
Just the way we implement our clone method and then we need to create or implement a couple concrete
classes or extend these after our class here will say class Ford extends basic car our constructor is
going to just set the model name so we can access it in our cash.
So take a string
and let's use the brackets.
And this is just going to set the model name to em from the base class.
I love how they keep adding brackets for me
and then we're also going to implement the colonial here
so we're going to just basically make a Ford super clone even though we don't have extra attributes
inhere and it's not necessary.
What we're gonna say public basic car clone throws
that's for an exception.
This will allow us to return afford if we need it.
Turn for super dazzle.
We're gonna do something very similar for our Nano car
so we can copy and paste some of that in because it is mainly code duplication with just very very slight
differences.
Returning a nano instead in our clone method.
So there we implemented our basic classes that we want cloned.
Now we want to create our cash that can retrieve colonial items easily.
Kind of a helper to the client.
So now we're gonna say new Java class basic car cash.
And this is going to have a private static cash table
of strings and basic cars
string based car.
And we're going to S.A. this a class loaning time.
So say basic car map equals new hash table
string.
Basic Car math
basic core sorry basic car not basic car map.
And then we're gonna have a good car that will return the car in the hash table based on the string
of the car name.
So we'll make this static so we don't have to create an instance of our basic car cash basic car map.
Gosh I keep making that mistake.
Basic Car get car string car name.
And this will return our basic car.
So occurred a local variable of a caste car.
So we can call clone on it
get it from the map
using the key car name and then we want to return the colonial of this.
So we just return a basic car cached basic car Doc clone.
OK.
So that's a helper method for the client so we can get our cars.
We're going to add another helping method which is create these instances so that the hash table has
some information in it.
And so we're gonna create a method called load cash this load cash is going to create new Nanos in New
forts and we're going to set the price equal to basically the price methods that we can get.
So when a call price.
So we want to do is we want to set initial prices and then afterwards we want to change those prices
to demonstrate that things were cloned.
So this is what we want to do basically and have correct quotation marks since copying and pasting doesn't
always work correctly.
And so this is our cash class.
Pretty straightforward.
We want to make sure that this compiles and we don't have any issues.
And I do have an extra quote there.
And that should be good.
The last thing to do is create our client go ahead and say new client
and what we'll do here is the first thing we'll do is we're gonna display information to say what this
is.
This is actually outputting.
So we're just gonna be demonstrating the prototype design pattern and what we want to do is we want
to first load the cash so we can say basic car cash Load
load
cash something like that and we want to make sure this isn't a main method
so that we can get rid of those rates.
So we know once we load the cash we can then get some colonial items and change their prices.
So first we want to get our green anno
so we're gonna do something like this to get our green nano.
Something like that.
We then want to set the price to be more than a thousand to make sure that our green Nano is a clone.
And then I'll put some information related to it.
So here we're gonna say B.C. 1 da price equals B.C. 1 that price plus basic car set price.
So we're adding to it.
And then we can get the actual model name
and we can get the price
which we don't have a get math.
We just made it public which pi make that private for good instance but it is public.
This should definitely be private.
You know all about that you know all about those good programming practices.
Even when I make mistakes we can also do the same for a yellow Ford and also set its price to make sure.
So let's do something similar.
Try to make this bigger.
So we're gonna create.
Now we're gonna set the basic car B C 1 and we're gonna set it to getting another colonial which is
a Ford yellow.
So it's gonna get a clone of that object instead.
And it's also gonna get the model.
And so this will demonstrate the prototype that we got cloned items and then because typical what you
do when you get a clone item is you modified after and you can use it and it's still not a new instance.
So let's go out and build and run this and see what we get
when we run this and I made a mistake when I said that private we want to make it protected
I had to make a couple corrections to get this to compile because I made a couple mistakes.
Mainly I want to make sure that the subclasses implement Colonial.
And so when I when the base class implements colonial I don't need to have to try and catch catch it
because the base classes and so I also change the return values of the clone methods to return the right
types.
And I don't have to enclose and try and catch so a couple mistakes I just fixed.
Real quick I didn't want to waste your time on the implementation it's implementing clone correctly
in the subclasses.
I made a couple of mistakes in the subclasses implementing them again I added implements colonial change
type to the clone didn't have to close some trying to catch because it's already up here in the base
class and I did the same for the Nano.
So now when I try to build it should compile correctly and I should be able to run it and you'll see
that our prototype design pattern is working splendidly.
We are able to get copies of green nano and Ford yellow and add to its price to modify the price attribute.
Thank you.